# Example Workshop Submission 

### Workshop Description
Open science increases access to knowledge and expands opportunities for new voices to participate. Sharing data, code, and knowledge associated with the scientific process lowers barriers to entry for historically-underrepresented communities, enables findings to be more easily reproduced, and generates new knowledge at scale. This is why NASA is pursuing an open-source science ethos; open-source science embraces the principles of open science and activates it in a way that unlocks the full potential of a more equitable, impactful, efficient, scientific future. Modules include Ethos of Open Science, Open Data, Open Software, Open Results and Open Tools.

### Audience Interest Statement
This work supports OMB Office of Management and Budget (OMB) revised Circular A-130, “Managing Information as a Strategic Resource,”  and other federal agency policies (e.g., NASA’s new scientific information policy SPD-41, which states “Results of federally funded research and development need to be shared openly in order to maximize the benefit and reach of the information which requires open access to data, software, and publications”). These workshops will advance that information policy by helping the scientific community understand how to openly share their data, software, and results for maximum scientific impact.   
 
Within NASA’s Open-Source Science Initiative (OSSI), the new Transform to Open Science (TOPS) mission is working to coordinate a shift to a more open inclusive culture of science. The Year of Open Science will act as a catalyst to jump-start this community change by advocating for and teaching open science at large society meetings, events, science team meetings, through online and in-person cohorts, and provide material for independent online learning through a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on open science. The material within these modules will have high visibility during the Year of Open Science and needs to be of high quality to guide 20,000 scientists to complete the training and receive their Open Science badge. 
 
Further, TOPS and its collaborators intend to help teach, promote, and make available the curriculum and methods developed to the broadest possible community. This includes the Earth, space, and environmental sciences and related sciences, such as the life sciences, health, chemical sciences, and material sciences. This would also extend to open science, data, and software groups that work across these science domains.
 
For every module completed, participants will earn a portion of their Open Science badge. Those who aren't able to complete all modules onsite will have the opportunity to complete them online following the meeting.   

This workshop ultimately provides dialogue and training around open science, providing participants with an opportunity to gain skills that challenge the current norms and creates a community which designs its scientific endeavors to be open from the start.
