# Strengthen Open Science

*You understand the principles of open science, and have adopted some open science practices in your research. Your organization wants to host listening sessions or town halls, or hold open meetings and send out surveys, to understand how they can lower barriers to open science via updated policy or adjusted governance models. You are participating in the [year of open science](/Year_of_Open_Science_Cookbook/Engage_year_of_open_science.md)! You and your organization are on the path to **strengthening** open science. It is time to think big!*  

## Join TOPS in "Transforming"
To help catalyze the move to open science and support changing cultural norms, NASA is championing the Transform to Open Science (TOPS) mission. As part of that mission, NASA has decreed that [**2023 as the Year Of Open Science**](/Year_of_Open_Science_Cookbook/readme.md). But it does not stop there. TOPS is a growing, global initiative rooted in community values that aims to spark change and inspire broad open science engagement. Through TOPS [four areas of action](https://github.com/nasa/Transform-to-Open-Science#implementation), the mission will increase awareness about open science, provide learning resources, and host and co-host events to support a cultural transition to open science. 

**Through collaboration with other organizations, NASA will support and enable the scientific community to move towards open science.** The following list of planned activities represents the areas in which TOPS aims to take action to transform towards open science. If you and your organization are ready to add your strength--via your people, resources, and work--to this transformation, we invite you to join us in these areas of action. 

### TOPS Planned Activities
  
  1. **Promoting   a   common   understanding   of   open   science,   associated   benefits   and   challenges, as well as diverse paths to open science.** Increase open science visibility through high-level support and communication strategies, give colloquia, and build partnerships with companies, philanthropic groups, organizations, and institutions to advance open science activities.
  2. **Developing an enabling policy environment for open science.** <br> The TOPS team will provide advice and guidance to agencies and organizations on targeted policy adjustments to allow for open science activities by federal employees and contractors.<br> 
  3. **Investing in open science infrastructures and services.** Support development of an open science infrastructure center of excellence that has a strong community-led base to advance interoperability and inclusivity, and can advance open infrastructures and FAIR Analysis-Ready Cloud-Optimized (ARCO) data and software.
  4. **Investing in human resources, education, digital literacy and capacity building for open science.** Support development of an open science education center of excellence that has a strong community-led base to advance open science literacy. Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), collaboratively develop curriculum on open science and data science skills with open science certificates and badges. Leverage existing investments in training and support summer internships, summer schools, HackWeeks, Open Science Launchpads, and challenges.
  5. **Aligning incentives and fostering a culture of open science.** Create open science awards, highlight successes, and integrate open science community building and practices into performance evaluations, research awards, and reporting.
  6. **Promoting innovative approaches for open science at different stages of the scientific process.** Integrate open science practices into citizen science, provide a free, low-barrier path to large-scale research infrastructures (e.g. interactive notebook deployments on commercial clouds).
  7. **Promoting international and multi stakeholder cooperation in the context of open science and in view of reducing digital and knowledge gaps.** Engage with international partners to participate in joint activities around open science, including open infrastructures, open MOOCs, international awards, and open metrics.

## Open Science Action Plans

Open Science Action Plans (OSAPs) are comprehensive strategy documents designed to advance adoption of open science practices. They should document (1) what an organization is doing well, (2) where there are areas for improvement, and (3) detail specific actions that the organization will take to address the areas of improvement. Some organizations may be hesitant to publicly commit themselves to OSAPs; it can be difficult to admit areas where there is still work to be done. Part of adopting open science is becoming more comfortable sharing our failures -- as individuals and organizations -- as well as our successes. Honestly sharing a current status, publishing lessons learned, and announcing ideas for moving forward are exactly the open science practices that TOPS and the greater open science community are advocating scientists adopt. 

One possible starting point for an OSAP  is to use the [UNESCO Recommendation on Open Science](https://en.unesco.org/science-sustainable-future/open-science/recommendation) which sets out 7 areas of action to advance open science. Within that report, there are specific examples for different types of organizations. 

These areas of action are:
* Promoting   a   common   understanding   of   open   science,   associated   benefits   and   challenges, as well as diverse paths to Open Science
* Developing an enabling policy environment for open science
* Investing in open science infrastructures and services
* Investing in human resources, education, digital literacy and capacity building for open science
* Fostering a culture of open science and aligning incentives for open science
* Promoting innovative approaches for open science at different stages of the scientific process
* Promoting  international  and  multistakeholder  cooperation  in  the  context  of  open  science, and in view of reducing digital and knowledge gaps

UNESCO also [provided guidance](https://en.unesco.org/science-sustainable-future/open-science/recommendation) to consider “the development of a monitoring framework with qualitative and quantitative indicators, within national strategic plans and shared at the international level, with objectives and actions in the short, medium and long term for the implementation of the present.” 

Once an ‘open science plan’ is developed, ideally it is shared publicly along with a dashboard that shows progress with clearly defined metrics. Some example activities that could be a part of that plan are:
* **Science Associations:** Designate 1 day of annual meetings to focus on open science education. This could include workshops, tutorials, and showcases, and should aim to represent all the aspects of participating in and contributing to open science. This would reach a large percentage of the scientific community and create an urgency around learning to use these new tools to conduct research. Advance ability to publish software research notebooks alongside research results. Create open science awards and include open science activities in criteria for existing honors where possible. Allow award nominations to include teams. 
* **Federal Agencies:** Designate 1 day each month to advance open science practices. Remove bureaucratic barriers to open science, incentivise open science activities, and provide training opportunities for learning open science tools. Update agency evaluation and promotion criteria and guidelines to better enable participation in open science. Set agency workforce training goals aligned with doing open science and learning the tools to work collaboratively and openly. 
* **Institutions:** Update evaluation and promotion criteria to include recognition of open science activities. Incorporate open science best practices into graduate and undergraduate curricula. Update intellectual property guidelines to align with open initiatives. Develop open science cohorts within departments to support the move towards openness. Develop open science practices and encourage the use of collaborative cloud computing environments for research.

## Declare a Year of Open Science
Strengthen NASA's Year of Open Science through the [engagement and strengthening activities](/Year_of_Open_Science_Cookbook/Engage_year_of_open_science.md) we have provided. Or go further and *also* declare 2023 the Year of Open Science for your organization! Join us at [conferences](/Year_of_Open_Science_Cookbook/conferences_for_the_year_of_open_science.md), create awards, and make available funding to advance open science. 
