---
layout: event
title:  "TOPS 2024 Total Solar Eclipse Activities"
disclaimer: false
permalink: "/events/eclipse/"
image: assets/img/events/eclipse.jpg
imagecaption: "An image of a solar eclipse."
date: 2023-11-12
daterange: "Apr 3 - 8, 2024"
location: "Uvalde, TX"
venue: "Several Venues Listed Below"
acronyms: "Planetary,Astro,Helio"
map: <iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d62542.797075592076!2d-99.79996562205729!3d29.210134972682102!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x865ee140326f39dd%3A0xa5b0b5d62bab238c!2sUvalde%2C%20TX%2078801!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1706203388227!5m2!1sen!2sus" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>
imageattribution: <a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Thammarith">Thammarith Likittheerameth</a>, <a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:2019-12-26_Annular-Solar-Eclipse-in-Singapore.jpg">2019-12-26 Annular-Solar-Eclipse-in-Singapore</a>, <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode" rel="license">CC BY-SA 4.0</a>
---

On April 8, 2024, a total solar eclipse will cross North America, passing over Mexico, the United States, and Canada. During this event, the Moon will move between the Sun and Earth, completely blocking the Sun. As a result, the sky will darken, creating an effect similar to dawn or dusk.  

### TOPS Agenda

Come join TOPS in exploring the data-driven domain of eclipses to help understand how open science principles facilitate the sharing and analysis of information among researchers, students, and enthusiasts.

##### April 3, 2024.

Activities at Uvalde, TX

- Eclipses for Adults and High School
  - 7:00 PM (CDT)
  - SW Texas Junior College Central Campus Ballroom


##### April 4, 2024.

Activities at Eagle Pass, TX

**TOPS Workshop**

Come join TOPS at our workshop for the Open Science 101 curriculum which focuses on the "Ethos of Open Science" module.  This workshop is an exciting opportunity to delve into the fundamental principles of open science.  Topics covered include an overview of open science, the benefits and challenges of open science adoption, considerations for writing management plans, determining whether research products should be open, and ways to connect with others practicing open science, and more.

- 3:00 PM – 5:00 PM (CDT)
- Eagle Pass Campus (Sul Ross State University)
  
##### April 5, 2024

Activities at Del Rio, TX.

**TOPS Workshop**

Come join TOPS at our workshop for the Open Science 101 curriculum which focuses on the "Ethos of Open Science" module.  This workshop is an exciting opportunity to delve into the fundamental principles of open science.  Topics covered include an overview of open science, the benefits and challenges of open science adoption, considerations for writing management plans, determining whether research products should be open, and ways to connect with others practicing open science, and more.

- 3:30 PM - 5:30 PM (CDT)
- Southwest Texas Junior College (SWTJC) Auditorium
  
##### April 6, 2024

Activities at Uvalde, TX.

**Eclipse Science with NASA Scientists**

Join NASA's TOPS team and NASA scientists to learn about the science behind total solar eclipses.  
- 10:00 AM - 12:30 PM (CDT)
- Sul Ross State University Uvalde Campus Auditorium

**Solar Viewing and Citizen Science with NASA Scientists**

Join NASA's TOPS team and NASA scientists to learn about the science behind total solar eclipses. Learn how you can participate in Citizen Science efforts to advance research during the 2024 Total Solar Eclipse.
- 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM (CDT)
- El Progreso Library

**Solar Viewing and Eclipse Prep with NASA Scientists**

Meet NASA scientists and participate in solar viewing activities in preparation for safe eclipse viewing.  Free to attend.
- 2:00 PM – 5:00 PM 
- Softball Field outside Auditorium at Sul Ross State University

##### April 7, 2024

Activities at Garner State Park, TX.

**Solar Viewing and Eclipse Science with NASA Scientists**

Meet the TOPS team and NASA scientists to participate in solar viewing activities in preparation for safe eclipse viewing at Garner State Park. See the sun through unique telescopes and learn how NASA studies the Sun, Moon and Earth during these rare celestial events. 

[Garner State Park](https://tpwd.texas.gov/state-parks/garner/fees-facilities/entrance-fees) charges $8 admission into the park for attendees  13 years and older.

- 10:00 AM – 2:00 PM (CDT)
- Garner State Park

##### April 8, 2024

Join the TOPS team for the 2024 Total Solar Eclipse. Representatives will be on site at the Sul Ross/Southwest Texas Junior College Softball Field in Uvalde, Texas. There will be activities including solar viewing, citizen science projects, and more. This event will be free to the public. 

**2024 Total Eclipse Viewing**

- Sul Ross State University/Southwest Texas Junior College Softball Field
  - Public viewing starting 10:30 AM (CDT)
  - 2401 Garner Field Road, Uvalde, TX 7880

### More Resources

- All NASA related events for the eclipse can be found [here](https://science.nasa.gov/eclipses/events/)
- Check out the SunSketcher app to participate in smartphone observations of the eclipse with fellow citizen scientists.  Details can be found [here](https://sunsketcher.org/index.php).