# TOPS Keynote Example 3

Knowledge is power and when it is shared, we all win. NASA is launching a 5-year mission — Transform to Open Science (TOPS) — which has set 2023 as the Year of Open Science to uplift open science principles across all scientific communities. NASA sees open science as an unprecedented opportunity to diversify the workforce and break down barriers that have left too many out of science.  

With its satellites, sensors, expertise and technologies, NASA has a 60-year legacy of continuously pushing the field of science to understand the universe, planetary systems, and life on Earth. Much of this success can also be attributed to a cultural history of open data for the public good. As life on Earth faces a growing set of intersecting challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, and food and water insecurity, science is being asked to find breakthroughs faster, to increase expertise at the intersections of traditional disciplines, and to broaden the understanding of how science translates to action. We need to advance beyond open data, to open science by sharing not just data, but also software and results. This requires a cultural shift across all NASA science to be more open, inclusive, transparent, and collaborative. 

This is why NASA is pursuing an open-source science ethos; open-source science embraces the principles of open science and activates it in a way that unlocks the full potential of a more equitable, impactful, efficient, scientific future. TOPS advocates for open science as it builds trust, advances understanding, and ultimately leads to new knowledge production and important new discoveries. To enable open science, the TOPS team is developing resources, activities, and incentives that will support and enable the scientific community to move towards open science. At [conference], we hope to share NASA's vision and invite the community to join us in the 2023 Year of Open Science as we challenge the old norms of scientific research and create a community which designs its scientific endeavors to be open from inception. 

"To change everything, we need everyone."
