# TOPS Town Hall Example 2

Open science — opening up the scientific process from idea inception to result — increases access to knowledge and expands opportunities for new voices to participate. Sharing the data, code, and knowledge associated with the scientific process lowers barriers to entry for historically-underrepresented communities, enables findings to be more easily reproduced, and generates new knowledge at scale. Success, however, depends on all of us working to change the paradigms and frameworks from which we operate. This is why NASA is pursuing an open-source science ethos; open-source science embraces the principles of open science and activates it in a way that unlocks the full potential of a more equitable, impactful, efficient, scientific future.

Cultural change is needed. Opening up the scientific process requires a paradigm shift that encourages open science behaviors and practices. To help catalyze and support cultural change within the scientific community, NASA has launched the Open-Source Science Initiative (OSSI), a long-term commitment to open science. To spark change and inspire open science engagement, OSSI has created the Transform to Open Science (TOPS) mission and declared 2023 as the Year Of Open Science.

But what does open science look like in practice? How does it lead to better results? How does it foster more diverse and inclusive scientific communities and research practices? In this town hall, we shall introduce the core principles of open science and share concrete examples of the benefits of open science and how this informed NASA’s development of TOPS workshop modules. Discussion will highlight best practices for building open science communities, increasing collaboration, and introducing open principles to project design, as well as an overview of open science norms. This town hall will also explore NASA’s science information policies and implications for NASA-funded researchers.
